host_domain_on_Azure_DNS

 host your DNS records for your domains on Azure infrastructure

What is Azure DNS?
Azure DNS is a hosting service for DNS domains that provides name resolution by using Microsoft Azure infrastructure
A DNS server carries out one of two primary functions:

    Maintains a local cache of recently accessed or used domain names and their IP addresses. This cache provides a faster response to a local domain lookup request. If the DNS server can't find the requested domain, it passes the request to another DNS server. This process repeats at each DNS server until either a match is made, or the search times out.
    Maintains the key-value pair database of IP addresses and any host or subdomain that the DNS server has authority over. This function is often associated with mail, web, and other internet domain services.

Configuration information for your DNS server is stored as a file within a zone on your DNS server. Each file is called a record. The following record types are the most commonly created and used:

    A is the host record, and is the most common type of DNS record. It maps the domain or host name to the IP address.
    CNAME is a Canonical Name record that's used to create an alias from one domain name to another domain name. If you had different domain names that all accessed the same website, you would use CNAME.
    MX is the mail exchange record. It maps mail requests to your mail server, whether hosted on-premises or in the cloud.
    TXT is the text record. It's used to associate text strings with a domain name. Azure and Microsoft 365 use TXT records to verify domain ownership.

Additionally, there are the following record types:

    Wildcards
    CAA (certificate authority)
    NS (name server)
    SOA (start of authority)
    SPF (sender policy framework)
    SRV (server locations)

Azure DNS acts as the SOA for the domain.
Security features

Azure DNS provides the following security features:

    Role-based access control, which gives you fine-grained control over users' access to Azure resources. You can monitor their usage, and control the resources and services they have access to.
    Actisvity logs, which let you track changes to a resource, and pinpoint where faults occurred.
    Resource locking, which gives a greater level of control to restrict or remove access to resource groups, subscriptions, or any Azure resources.


Configure Azure DNS to host your domain
Step 1: Create a DNS zone in Azure
    Subscription: The subscription to be used.
    Resource group: The name of the resource group to hold your domains. If one doesn't exist, create one to allow for better control and management.
    Name: The name of your domain, which in this case is wideworldimports.com.
    Resource group location: The location defaults to the location of the resource group.

Step 2: Get your Azure DNS name servers

Step 3: Update the domain registrar setting
nslookup -type=SOA wideworldimports.com

Step 4: Verify delegation of domain name services
nslookup -type=SOA wideworldimports.com

Step 5: Configure your custom DNS settings
A record

    Name: The name of the custom domain, for example webserver1.
    Type: In this instance, it's A.
    TTL: Represents the "time-to-live" as a whole unit, where 1 is one second. This value indicates how long the A record lives in a DNS cache before it expires.
    IP address: The IP address of the server this A record should resolve to.


CNAME record

    NAME: www
    TTL: 600 seconds
    Record type: CNAME

Configure private DNS zone
Step 1: Create private DNS zone
Step 2: Identify virtual networks
Step 3: Link your virtual network to a private DNS zone

Dynamically resolve resource name by using alias record

What is an apex domain?
The apex domain is the highest level of your domain.
apex domain is also sometimes referred to as the zone apex or root apex. It's often represented by the @ symbol in your DNS zone records.

The Azure alias record can point to the following Azure resources:

    A Traffic Manager profile
    Azure Content Delivery Network endpoints
    A public IP resource
    A front door profile

The alias record set supports the following DNS zone record types:

    A: The IPv4 domain name-mapping record.
    AAAA: The IPv6 domain name-mapping record.
    CNAME: The alias for your domain, and links to the A record.

 advantages of using alias records:

    Prevents dangling DNS records: A dangling DNS record occurs when the DNS zone records aren't up-to-date with changes to IP addresses. Alias records prevent dangling references by tightly coupling the lifecycle of a DNS record with an Azure resource.
    Updates DNS record set automatically when IP addresses change: When the underlying IP address of a resource, service, or application is changed, the alias record ensures that any associated DNS records are automatically refreshed.
    Hosts load-balanced applications at the zone apex: Alias records allow for zone apex resource routing to Traffic Manager.
    Points zone apex to Azure Content Delivery Network endpoints: With alias records, you can now directly reference your Azure Content Delivery Network instance.






