manage_traffic_flow_with_routes

Identify routing capabilities of an Azure virtual network

The Next hop type column shows the network path taken by traffic sent to each address prefix. The path can be one of the following hop types:

    Virtual network: A route is created in the address prefix. The prefix represents each address range created at the virtual-network level. If multiple address ranges are specified, multiple routes are created for each address range.
    Internet: The default system route 0.0.0.0/0 routes any address range to the internet, unless you override Azure's default route with a custom route.
    None: Any traffic routed to this hop type is dropped and doesn't get routed outside the subnet. By default, the following IPv4 private-address prefixes are created: 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, and 192.168.0.0/16. The prefix 100.64.0.0/10 for a shared address space is also added. None of these address ranges are globally routable.

Within Azure, there are additional system routes. Azure will create these routes if the following capabilities are enabled:

    Virtual network peering
    Service chaining
    Virtual network gateway
    Virtual network service endpoint

When creating user-defined routes, you can specify these next hop types:

    Virtual appliance: A virtual appliance is typically a firewall device used to analyze or filter traffic that is entering or leaving your network. You can specify the private IP address of a NIC attached to a virtual machine so that IP forwarding can be enabled. Or you can provide the private IP address of an internal load balancer.
    Virtual network gateway: Use to indicate when you want routes for a specific address to be routed to a virtual network gateway. The virtual network gateway is specified as a VPN for the next hop type.
    Virtual network: Use to override the default system route within a virtual network.
    Internet: Use to route traffic to a specified address prefix that is routed to the internet.
    None: Use to drop traffic sent to a specified address prefix.

Route selection and priority

If multiple routes are available in a route table, Azure uses the route with the longest prefix match
If multiple routes share the same address prefix, Azure selects the route based on its type in the following order of priority:

    User-defined routes
    BGP routes
    System routes




What is an NVA?
A network virtual appliance (NVA) is a virtual appliance that consists of various layers like:

    a firewall
    a WAN optimizer
    application-delivery controllers
    routers
    load balancers
    IDS/IPS
    proxies

Network virtual appliance

Network virtual appliances or NVAs are virtual machines that control the flow of network traffic by controlling routing. You typically use them to manage traffic flowing from a perimeter-network environment to other networks or subnets.

An NVA often includes various protection layers like:

    a firewall
    a WAN optimizer
    application-delivery controllers
    routers
    load balancers
    proxies
    an SD-WAN edge








