scalability_resiliency_Azure_Load_Balancer


Azure Load Balancer features and capabilities
Azure Load Balancer is a service you can use to distribute traffic across multiple virtual machines
Load balancers use a hash-based distribution algorithm. By default, a five-tuple hash is used to map traffic to available servers. The hash is made from the following elements:

    Source IP: The IP address of the requesting client.
    Source port: The port of the requesting client.
    Destination IP: The destination IP of the request.
    Destination port: The destination port of the request.
    Protocol type: The specified protocol type, TCP or UDP.

Availability sets
An availability set is a logical grouping that you use to isolate virtual machine resources from each other when they're deployed. 

Availability zones
An availability zone offers groups of one or more datacenters that have independent power, cooling, and networking. The virtual machines in an availability zone are placed in different physical locations within the same region.


Basic load balancers allow:

    Port forwarding
    Automatic reconfiguration
    Health probes
    Outbound connections through source network address translation (SNAT)
    Diagnostics through Azure Log Analytics for public-facing load balancers


Standard load balancers support all of the basic load balancer features. They also allow:

    HTTPS health probes
    Availability zones
    Diagnostics through Azure Monitor, for multidimensional metrics
    High availability (HA) ports
    Outbound rules
    A guaranteed SLA (99.99% for two or more virtual machines)

Internal and external load balancers
An external load balancer operates by distributing client traffic across multiple virtual machines.
An internal load balancer distributes a load from internal Azure resources to other Azure resources


Configure a public load balancer

Distribution modes
    Five-tuple hash.
    Source IP affinity. This distribution mode is also known as session affinity or client IP affinity. To map traffic to the available servers, the source IP affinity mode uses a two-tuple hash (from the source IP address and destination IP address) or a three-tuple hash (from the source IP address, destination IP address, and protocol type).




xercise - Configure a public load balancer



Internal load balancer



